Webhooks Autoconfig docs (#273)
svix/svix-docs: content/receiving/webhooks-autoconfig.mdx

Reviewer: Wrong filename

Author: fixed

---
title: Receiving with Webhooks AutoConfig
---

# Receiving with Webhooks AutoConfig

Webhooks AutoConfig is a convenient way to configure your webhook endpoints in a code-first way, using the Svix SDK.

Key benefits:
- Define the webhook configuration in code (rather than both code and the webhooks management dashboard).
- Automatically update the endpoint's URL, event types and other settings.

> - Signature verification is supported out of the box, no additional secrets to wire up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webhooks AutoConfig make it easy to configure and consume webhooks.

With AutoConfig webhook consumers can set their wanted webhook URL, event types, and other configuration in code, and AutoConfig will automatically ensure the settings are up to date. Configuration automatically changes when your code changes without needing to go to the UI and reconfigure the endpoint.
```

Maybe

Author: updated

            url: "https://api.us.example.com/webhooks/acme",
          });

          await webhook.subscribe();
          EOF
        env:
          AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN }}
```

### Express.js

```js
import express from "express";
import { Svix } from "svix";

const app = express();

const webhook = new Svix.AutoConfig({
  token: process.env.AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
  eventTypes: ["invoice.paid", "user.created"],
  url: "https://api.us.example.com/webhooks/acme",
});

async function start() {
  await webhook.subscribe();
  app.listen(3000);
}

start();
```

### Elysia

```typescript
import { Elysia } from "elysia";
import { Svix } from "svix";

const webhook = new Svix.AutoConfig({
  token: process.env.AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
  eventTypes: ["invoice.paid", "user.created"],
  url: "https://api.us.example.com/webhooks/acme",
});

await webhook.subscribe();

new Elysia().get("/", () => "ok").listen(3000);
```

### Next.js (middleware)

```typescript
import { Svix } from "svix";

const webhook = new Svix.AutoConfig({
  token: process.env.AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
  eventTypes: ["invoice.paid", "user.created"],
  url: "https://api.us.example.com/webhooks/acme",
});

> export async function register() {

Reviewer: This is only called once?

Author: Yeah, it uses this https://nextjs.org/docs/app/guides/instrumentation that runs when the NextJS server instance initializes. It can happen multiple times if the server is restarted, or there are multiple instances, but it's not ran 'once per call', so I think it's fine. 

Added a small explanation to clarify.

---
title: Receiving with Webhooks AutoConfig
---

# Receiving with Webhooks AutoConfig

Webhooks AutoConfig is a convenient way to configure your webhook endpoints in a code-first way, using the Svix SDK.

Key benefits:
- Define the webhook configuration in code (rather than both code and the webhooks management dashboard).

> - Automatically update URL, event types and other endpoint settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Automatically update the URL, event types and other endpoint settings.
```

- Signature verification is supported out of the box, no additional secrets to wire up.

## How to use Webhooks AutoConfig

> 1. Create an endpoint and select AutoConfig as the configuration method.

Reviewer 2: May be a nitpick, but I think it's usually helpful to include the screenshots of doing this in the dashboard alongside the steps.

e.g.

> Create an endpoint and select 'AutoConfig' as the configuration method
>   \<screenshot in the UI\>
> Get the AutoConfig token
>   \<screenshot in the UI\>

etc

Author: added screenshots inline for each step

```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Ruby">
```ruby
require "svix"

webhook = Svix::AutoConfig.new(
  token: AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
  event_types: ["invoice.paid", "user.created"],
  url: "https://api.us.example.com/webhooks/acme",
)

webhook.subscribe
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="C#">
```csharp
using System;
using Svix;

var webhook = new AutoConfig(
    AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
    new[] { "invoice.paid", "user.created" },
    "https://api.us.example.com/webhooks/acme");

await webhook.SubscribeAsync();
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="PHP">
```php
$webhook = new \Svix\AutoConfig([
    'token' => AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
    'eventTypes' => ['invoice.paid', 'user.created'],
    'url' => 'https://api.us.example.com/webhooks/acme',
]);

$webhook->subscribe();
```
</TabItem>

</CodeTabs>

### Payload Verification

When using Webhooks AutoConfig, the payload verification is supported out of the box, no need to wire up additional secrets.

To verify the payload, call verify() on the same AutoConfig instance you used to subscribe. The AutoConfig token contains the secret key to verify the payload.

```typescript
const webhook = new Svix.AutoConfig({
  token: process.env.AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
  ...
});

> webhook.verify(payload, headers);

Reviewer 2: Where do the `payload` and `headers` come from in this code example?

Author: I added a note

```
`payload` and `headers` depend on the framework (see [Integration Examples](#integration-examples)).
```

```

<Callout type="info">

**Use the raw request body when verifying webhooks**

You need to use the raw request body when verifying webhooks, as the cryptographic signature is sensitive to even the slightest changes.

> You should watch out for frameworks that parse the request as JSON and then stringify it because this too will break the signature verification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should watch out for frameworks that parse the request as JSON and then stringify it because this can break the signature verification.
```

See [Verifying Webhooks](/receiving/verifying-payloads/how) for more details.

</Callout>

## Integration Examples

> AutoConfig can be used in a variety of ways, as part of a CI/CD pipeline, a serverless function, or the startup process of your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AutoConfig can be used in a variety of ways, such as part of a CI/CD pipeline, a serverless function, or the startup process of your application.
```

---
title: Receiving with Webhooks AutoConfig
---

# Receiving with Webhooks AutoConfig

Webhooks AutoConfig is a convenient way to configure your webhook endpoints in a code-first way, using the Svix SDK.

Key benefits:
- Define the webhook configuration in code (rather than both code and the webhooks management dashboard).
- Automatically update the endpoint's URL, event types and other settings.

> - Signature verification is supported out of the box, no additional secrets to wire up.

Reviewer: I'll make actual suggestions later, but this needs changing. I don't think it clarifies the benefits well. As in, I don't know why I'd use it?

## How to use Webhooks AutoConfig

1. Create an endpoint and select AutoConfig as the configuration method.
2. Get the AutoConfig token.
3. Set the endpoint configuration and the AutoConfig token in your application.

> 4. Call `subscribe()` to complete the configuration.

Reviewer: nextra supports a "guide" component btw, that will probably be nicer for this? (multi-step guide kind of thing)

Author: Added that, and I think it looks nice now

</CodeTabs>

### Payload Verification

When using Webhooks AutoConfig, the payload verification is supported out of the box, no need to wire up additional secrets.

To verify the payload, call verify() on the same AutoConfig instance you used to subscribe. The AutoConfig token contains the secret key to verify the payload.

```typescript
const webhook = new Svix.AutoConfig({
  token: process.env.AUTO_CONFIG_TOKEN,
  ...
});

webhook.verify(payload, headers);
```

`payload` and `headers` depend on the framework (see [Integration Examples](#integration-examples)).

<Callout type="info">

**Use the raw request body when verifying webhooks**

You need to use the raw request body when verifying webhooks, as the cryptographic signature is sensitive to even the slightest changes.
You should watch out for frameworks that parse the request as JSON and then stringify it because this can break the signature verification.

See [Verifying Webhooks](/receiving/verifying-payloads/how) for more details.

</Callout>

## Integration Examples

AutoConfig can be used in a variety of ways, such as part of a CI/CD pipeline, a serverless function, or the startup process of your application.

> Here are some examples in different frameworks and deployment platforms.

Reviewer: This section is still confusing, and it feels out of place and doesn't actually explain anything. The CI/CD use-case should be an addendum comment, not part of the main flow.

Serverless function and startup process of the application: confusing. Just talk about the startup as the only thing, that should be the focus on the doc. So the top, where you put the benefits should include this part that you set it up from code and that's it.
